#summary What the Issues tab is for
This page is to explain to people that aren't familiar with this type of system and don't know what the Issues tab is for (and not for).

= The Use of the Issues Tab =

The Issues tab is for bug submissions, feature requests, and/or other defects in our software. It is not a place to discuss general iPhone issues or issues with other tools (except as used with our software).

== Examples of Appropriate Issues ==

 # The virginizer tool failed for (...) reason
 # anySIM 1.2 did (...) instead of what I expected
 # I had a problem with the (...) version of the virginizer script

== Examples of Inappropriate Issues ==

 # I had a (...) problem downgrading from (any firmware version)
 # How do I use anySIM?
 # After upgrading my phone bricked/lost Wi-Fi (unless you ran the virginizer and suspect it is related)

Please make sure you read and follow directions. We've taken the time to write them, so we expect you to read and follow them. If you do not follow them, and you brick your phone, that's not our problem.

The virginizer can be a dangerous tool if you're not careful with it. If you power the phone off in the middle of it running and you get unlucky, you may end up wiping out your seczone completely. This means your phone is a brick.

Please don't be upset at us, though - we didn't cause the damage that needed repair in the first place; we just found a way to fix it. If you do as instructed, and create backups *and copy them off of your phone*, you should be fine.

If you don't understand any part of a process, you should probably find someone to help or explain it to you and have the willpower to wait to run the tool until you at least have a basic understanding of how it works.

Scripts were created to help keep processes simple for people, but there is no substitute for knowledge and experience.