#summary How to remove dropbear-ssh and install OpenSSH
#labels Tutorial
= Instructions =
 # Install BSD Subsystem using Installer.
 # Install UIctl from Installer.
 # Run UIctl (be careful with this application). Tap au.asn.ucc.matt.dropbear and choose "unload -w".
 # Install OpenSSH with Installer.
 # Connect to your iPhone using SCP or SFTP, with a user name of root, and a password of alpine (if your phone is running 1.1.x) or dottie (if your phone is running 1.0.x).
 # Using SCP or SFTP, delete the following files and folders on the iPhone: /etc/dropbear (folder) /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/au.asn.ucc.matt.dropbear.plist /usr/bin/dropbear
 # Restart the iPhone. In UIctl, verify that au.asn.ucc.matt.dropbear is gone. If so, dropbear-ssh is not loaded (which is what we want).

If you have dropbear-ssh loaded with com.apple.update.plist:

 # Install BSD Subsystem using Installer.
 # Install OpenSSH with Installer.
 # Copy com.apple.update.plist.orig from your sshkit folder to /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.update.plist (Delete com.apple.update.plist beforehand, and make sure comm.apple.update.plist.orig is named com.apple.update after copying.)
 # Restart the iPhone.
 # Connect to your iPhone using SCP, with a user name of root, and a password of alpine (if your phone is running 1.1.x) or dottie (if your phone is running 1.0.x).
 # Using SCP or SFTP, delete the following files and folders on the iPhone: /etc/dropbear (folder) /etc/init.d (folder) /usr/bin/dropbear /etc/hackinit.sh
 # Restart the iPhone again.